.github/instructions/todos.instructions.md, before:

---
applyTo: '**'
---

<todos title="Phase 4: Routing Integration Completion" agentRequirement="Review steps frequently throughout the conversation and DO NOT stop between steps unless they explicitly require it. Keep the todos updated using the todo_write tool (do not edit this file).">
- [x] phase4-generator-injection: Update Generator constructor to inject SymfonyRouteManager 🔴
  _Added SymfonyRouteManager to Generator constructor. Autowiring in services.yaml will handle injection automatically._
- [x] phase4-generator-getroutes: Refactor Generator::getRoutes() to use SymfonyRouteManager instead of RouteFacade 🔴
  _Updated getRoutes() to call routeManager.getDocumentedRoutes() which handles @only-docs and exclusion checks. Simplified logic significantly._
- [x] phase4-routeinfo-adapter: Update RouteInfo to accept both Route and RouteAdapter in constructor 🔴
  _Updated RouteInfo constructor signature and added helper methods className() and methodName() to handle both Laravel format (Controller@method) and Symfony formats (Controller::method or [Controller::class, 'method'])_
- [-] phase4-remove-laravel-deps: Remove Laravel Route and other illuminate/* type references from core classes 🔴
  _Discovered that Generator and RouteInfo still have many Laravel type references and helper function calls. These need to be replaced with Symfony equivalents as part of broader migration (Phases 8-11)._
- [x] phase4-update-services: Update services.yaml to ensure Generator receives SymfonyRouteManager 🟡
  _No changes needed - autowiring in services.yaml automatically injects SymfonyRouteManager into Generator_
- [ ] phase4-scramble-routes: Update Scramble.php route registration methods for Symfony 🟢
  _This is lower priority as DocumentationController already handles route registration. May need to keep these methods for backward compatibility or deprecate them._
</todos>

<!-- Auto-generated todo section -->
<!-- Add your custom Copilot instructions below -->

Commit message:

feat(phase11): add Symfony-compatible helpers and Collection class
- Create src/Support/helpers.php with app(), collect(), config(), logger(), url()
- Create src/Support/Collection.php as Laravel Collection replacement
  * Implements ArrayAccess, Countable, IteratorAggregate
  * Supports: filter, map, mapWithKeys, each, every, some, first, firstWhere
  * Supports: pluck, groupBy, sortBy, unique, flatten, values, keys, join
- Update composer.json to autoload helpers.php
- Update ScrambleBundle to set global container for app() helper
- Helper functions wrap Symfony services for backward compatibility

Collection class implements only methods used in this project.
Additional methods can be added as needed during migration.

Related: #phase11-create-helpers #phase11-app-helper #phase11-collect-helper

.github/instructions/todos.instructions.md, after:

---
applyTo: '**'
---

<todos title="Phase 11: Laravel Helpers Replacement" agentRequirement="Review steps frequently throughout the conversation and DO NOT stop between steps unless they explicitly require it. Keep the todos updated using the todo_write tool (do not edit this file).">
- [-] phase11-create-helpers: Create Symfony-compatible helper functions file 🔴
  _Need to create helpers for: app(), collect(), config(), logger(), url(). These will wrap Symfony services._
- [ ] phase11-app-helper: Create app() helper using Symfony container 🔴
  _Replace Laravel app() with service locator pattern or constructor injection where possible_
- [ ] phase11-collect-helper: Replace collect() with array operations or Doctrine Collections 🔴
  _collect() returns Illuminate\Support\Collection. Need to replace with native arrays or create Collection wrapper_
- [ ] phase11-config-helper: Replace config() with Symfony ParameterBag 🟡
  _Used in Generator for app.name and app.debug_
- [ ] phase11-logger-helper: Replace logger() with Symfony LoggerInterface 🟡
  _Used in Generator for error logging_
- [ ] phase11-url-helper: Replace url() with Symfony UrlGenerator 🟡
  _Used in Generator for server URL generation_
- [ ] phase11-str-class: Replace Illuminate\Support\Str with Symfony String component 🟢
  _Multiple files use Str::of(), Str::startsWith(), etc._
- [ ] phase11-arr-class: Replace Illuminate\Support\Arr with native array functions 🟢
  _Used in Scramble.php_
</todos>

<!-- Auto-generated todo section -->
<!-- Add your custom Copilot instructions below -->
